Some of the view settings and filters that we discussed in this lesson
may remind you of the custom segments that we built in the last lesson.
In fact, view settings and filters on the one hand and
custom segments on the other are quite similar in some cases,
but let's make sure we understand what makes them different.
Let's say that we wanted to see a subset of sessions that originated from Canada.
We could do this in two ways.
We could create a custom segment or we could create a dedicated filtered view.
If we create a segment of visitors from Canada versus a filtered view,
we want to remember that the custom segment is retroactive.
By default, the custom segment is visible only to the creator of the segment.
You only need to read and analyze access to create a segment,
it's not an edit activity.
Importantly, a segment does not alter the underlying view data,
which is why we never have to hesitate to experiment with segments.
View filters and view settings on the other hand,
we have to be more careful with.
View settings and filters apply from the moment they
are configured going forward, not retroactively.
They're seen by anyone who accesses the view,
which is why we don't want to experiment too much with view filters and view settings.
We want to have a good idea of what we're doing
before we change filtering and change settings in a view.
You need edit level access to the view to change a setting or to apply a filter.
Importantly, any view setting or
any view filter that you change will alter the underlying view data,
which is why these activities do require edit access,
and which is why we want to be more careful about view settings and view filters,
then we do for custom segments.